reports/20250216.md, before:

# Weekly Report - Week 6
During Week 6, our primary focus was finalizing the front-end design with login/register and logout features.
## Last Week's Goals
#### Gracie
- Finish filter system design
- Begin implementing filter system
- Translate remaining backend features into project board items

#### Yigit
- Update the GitHub front-end code with the finalized version
- Implement the food API and finalize all Mongoose schemas
- After finishing API implementation, populate the website with food products

#### Liam
- Integrate more achievements
- Set up "locked" achievements that you haven't completed yet and "Your        achievements" that you have completed

#### Henry
- help with filtering system
- finalize plan to implement chatbot

#### Ben 
- 

## Progress & Issues
#### Gracie

#### Yigit
- Pushed latest front-end changes to the Git page.

#### Liam

#### Henry
-finished AI implementation plan 

#### Ben
- 

## This Week's Goals
#### Gracie

#### Yigit
- Implement the API and populate the website with food products.
- Implement createplan.html and finalizeplan.html. (Front-end design are done, just need to add it to the flow)
- Help others with implementing the plan creation feature (back-end code).

#### Liam

#### Henry
- Implement plan creation feature
- help with documentation

#### Ben 
-

Commit message:

Added my contributions to Week 6 report

reports/20250216.md, after:

# Weekly Report - Week 6
During Week 6, our primary focus was finalizing the front-end design with login/register and logout features.
## Last Week's Goals
#### Gracie
- Finish filter system design
- Begin implementing filter system
- Translate remaining backend features into project board items

#### Yigit
- Update the GitHub front-end code with the finalized version
- Implement the food API and finalize all Mongoose schemas
- After finishing API implementation, populate the website with food products

#### Liam
- Integrate more achievements
- Set up "locked" achievements that you haven't completed yet and "Your        achievements" that you have completed

#### Henry
- help with filtering system
- finalize plan to implement chatbot

#### Ben 
- 

## Progress & Issues
#### Gracie
- Pivotted gears due to realizing the frontend desperately needed templating before the designed backend filter system would be possible to implement
- Implemented Handlebars on the server-side
- Converted Public pages to Handlebars views/layouts/partials
- Simplified Protected page routing for ease of converstion to Handlebars this week

#### Yigit
- Pushed latest front-end changes to the Git page.

#### Liam

#### Henry
-finished AI implementation plan 

#### Ben
- 

## This Week's Goals
#### Gracie
- Convert remaining Protected pages to Handlebars
- Update backend routing to use entirely Handlebars
- Implement Filter skeleton (function prototype with basic I/O)

#### Yigit
- Implement the API and populate the website with food products.
- Implement createplan.html and finalizeplan.html. (Front-end design are done, just need to add it to the flow)
- Help others with implementing the plan creation feature (back-end code).

#### Liam

#### Henry
- Implement plan creation feature
- help with documentation

#### Ben 
-
